Hello everyone, this session covers the CS401 capstone project guidelines.
The capstone represents 40% of your final grade and is due at the end of week 12.
You'll work in teams of two or three to build an end-to-end machine learning system.
The project must include data collection or sourcing, preprocessing, model training, and evaluation.
A short written report documenting your methodology and results is also required.
Approved project domains include computer vision, natural language processing, and tabular prediction.
You may also propose a custom domain — submit a one-paragraph pitch to me by end of week 3.
Your dataset must have at least 1000 labeled examples. Using an existing public dataset is fine.
Kaggle, HuggingFace Datasets, and the UCI ML Repository are all acceptable sources.
If you collect your own data, you must include a data collection methodology section in your report.
Baseline models must be included — you need something to compare your final model against.
A logistic regression or decision tree is sufficient as a baseline for most problems.
Your primary model should be a neural network of some form — this is a deep learning course.
You'll present your project in a 12-minute presentation during the final exam period.
The presentation should cover problem framing, data, model architecture, results, and learnings.
Grading rubric: 30% methodology, 30% results, 20% presentation quality, 20% written report.
All code must be submitted as a GitHub repository with a clear README and reproducibility instructions.
Use virtual environments and pin your dependencies. We must be able to reproduce your results.
Academic integrity policy: all work must be your own. Using pretrained models is allowed with attribution.
Using ChatGPT or similar tools to write code is permitted if you document and understand it.
You cannot submit AI-generated code you do not understand or cannot explain in the presentation.
Milestones: team registration by week 2, dataset confirmed by week 4, checkpoint demo in week 8.
The week 8 checkpoint demo is ungraded but mandatory — it keeps teams on track.
Office hours are Tuesday 2 to 4pm. My PhD students are also available Wednesday afternoons.
Strong projects from previous years are linked on the course portal — highly recommend reviewing them.
Remember: the goal is not a perfect model but a rigorous, reproducible scientific process.
Good luck with your team formation. Let me know if you have any questions.